So, guys, going forward, I suppose your application uses a link list to maintain the records of the
students.
Now you want details of a student who is rule number is eight zero zero four zero zero.
So obviously, you will iterate over this list and return the matching result.
Right.
So the rule number of a student is a property which uniquely identifies the student.
So rule number is a key, right?
So in order to search a student in this linked list, you will obviously I tripped over all the nodes
of a link list.
So you would have written application function such as the one below.
So, for example, you are maintaining a link list which holds the records of a student.
So let us say that such a list is called student.
Right.
And the second parameter that we are passing to this function is rule number, which is a certain key.
So you will definitely going to write this function that is such a student by rule number in your application.
So this function will outrage over a linked list and return the matching result.
And, of course, the return result will be off by a student, right.
Similarly, how do you use the list to maintain the records of employees keyed by employee I.D.?
Such function would have been something like this, right.
So this is just another example.
So you would have to write as many search functions as you are using doubly linked list to maintain
records of different type.
Right.
So in this example, you are using linked list to store the records of students as well as to store
the records of employees.
So your application is using two different linked lists and therefore your application needs to write
two different search functions.
So let us discuss the code in the following part.
That is library designing slash programmable lab slash application doxy.
So here is the code and let us discuss this code.
So as you can see that.
The file that I am discussing is Application Darkseid, so it means that I am discussing the application,
which is using doubly linked list in order to organize and store its data.
So in this case, the application is using two data types, the first data type, that is a student
who represents the student information, which includes the name of the student age and weight and rule
number of the student.
Then we have a function which simply takes an argument, the pointer to the student record, and it
simply print all the fields of the student.
So we will use this function whenever we need to print the details of the student.
Then we have another functions which outraged over at doubly linked list, which is holding the record
of data type student.
Right.
And in this function, we I tripped over this linked list and we print the details of each student record
that is held by each node of this list.
Right.
So things are pretty much simple and straightforward.
Similarly, as the second example, our application also maintains another type of data called employee
and following are the fields of employee data structure.
Right in the same way, we have written a function which is used to print the employee details, and
we have another function which will iterate over a doubly linked list, which is holding the records
of data type employer.
Now, as we discussed that, whenever you need to search in a linked list in order to find a particular
record based on a key, you will write the search functions, right?
So this is the implementation of the two search functions, right?
You will write to search functions.
One is for a student and another one is for the employer.
And you can see the implementation of these two functions is pretty simple and straightforward.
You simply iterate over a linked list and you examine the data that is held by each node of a linked
list, and you compare the rule number with the rule number, which is parsed as an argument.
Right.
And if the match occurs, then you return the data pointer, that is the data held by that particular
node of a link list.
So basically you are returning a matching record out of these functions.
So let us discuss the main function now.
So in main function, we are actually creating the student record here.
You can see and we are simply filling the fields of the student in this record.
So we are creating three records.
That is a student one, student two and student three, right after creating these three student.
Then we create a link list.
Right.
And let us go on this list as student.
Now we have a link list.
Now we will add all these three students, one after the another, to this list by calling the function
add data to deal.
We have already implemented this function in the beginning of the scores.
So basically at this point of time, you have a linked list which is holding three student records.
Right now I'm calling the function such a student by Rollerball and you are passing the pointer to the
link list and you are passing the key.
So this function will simply return the student with the rule number eight 00, four 00.
Right.
And we are simply printing the details of that particular student, the exact same exercise we have
done for employee structure.
Also, we have created three employee records.
That is employer one, employee two and three.
We have created a linked list and we have inserted three employee records.
Now, next, we search the employee record in a linked list whose employee is one zero zero two sorry,
one triple zero two.
And once we locate such a record, then we simply put in the details of that record in this list.
So it looks like we are discussing very obvious thing and therefore I will not spend much time on this.
And let's go forward and let's proceed further.
We will now make modifications to this list library and to this application doxy code in order to understand
that how we can program our library and make use of it.